# Create a server on your machine
## Database
### Introducing
XAMPP comes with a database server. If your MySQL is not running, open the XAMPP Control Panel and click on the `Start` button in line of `MySQL`. You can follow this tutorial on SQL database. [Get started](../sql/Get%20started/)

### phpMyAdmin
To configure and mange our databases, we will use phpMyAdmin, a powerfull tool. If you want a complete tutorial, follow this: [Get started](../sql/phpMyAdmin/Get%20started/)

#### Access
To access it, type [http://localhost/phpmyadmin/index.php](http://localhost/phpmyadmin/index.php). If you have a connection page, type `admin` as username and let the password field empty. In the home page, you can change the theme under `Appearance settings` (`Bootstrap` and `Metro` are the prettiest for me).

#### Database structure
Keep in mind that a database is like a Excel book, and a table a sheet in the book. (i.e. It's possible to create DB in Excel). A table contains rows who's following the column shema like:
| name | password | id |
|------|----------|----|
| ray  | 1985     | 01 |
| tom  | julie    | 02 |
| lea  | super    | 03 |



#### Create a database
On the left panel, click on the `New` button. Enter the database name (e.g. the name of your project) and let the rest as default. Click `Create`. The name of your DB will appear on the left panel. Expand it by click the `+` button and click on the `New` button. This time it's to create a table in the DB. Call it `users`, it contains all users, and them informations.

By default, four columns are generated. If you need less, let the unused columns empty, they will not be created. If you need more, enter the number of columns to add in the field next to the name field and then click `Go`. The columns are displayed in rows (yes I know that's wiard). Enter the name of the first column (e.g. `username`), the change the type to `VARCHAR` and enter the length (`50` is enough for a username). Then name the others columns, the type depends of what will contains the column: for a username or a password choose `VARCHAR` (the equivalent of a `string`, this is for text), for a birthday choose `DATE` (it will accept the following format `yyYY-mm-dd`, e.g. `2022-12-10`). Now we will create a column `id`. This value need to be different for each user: each time a user is added, the value had to be incraese. There is a functionnality to do that in SQL: let the type as `INT` (for `integer`, an integer number: e.g. `1`, `358`, `-46`) and scroll horizontally until `A_I` value. That the short for `auto increment` (increase automaticly the value). Check the checkbox on the `id` line and that's it! Scroll to the bottom and click `Save` button. Your table `users` is now ready!

